A German Shepherd named Orient accompanied her blind owner Bill Irwin as he became the first blind person to through-hike the 2100-mile Appalachian Trail in 1990.
A Russian dog named Laika was the first animal in space traveling around Earth in 1957.
A bloodhound named Tigger holds the record for the longest ears each measuring more than 13 inches.
A dog's average body temperature is 101.2 degrees.
A dog's sense of smell is 10000 times stronger than a human's.
A dog's sense of smell is reduced by up to 40 percent when he's overheated and panting.
A dog's whiskers are used as sensing devices.
According to a study shared by Cornell University dogs were domesticated between 9000 and 34000 years ago.
Although it was once illegal to keep dogs as pets in Iceland's capital city the laws have been relaxed.
As Disney's Cruella De Vil was aware Dalmatian puppies are born pure white and develop spots as they grow older.
At about 6 inches the Chihuahua is the shortest breed.
Bichons Portuguese Water Dogs Kerry Blue Terriers Maltese and Poodles are all good choices if you have allergies since they shed less than other breeds.
Big happy “helicopter” tail wagging is one sign of a really nice dog
Bingo is the name of the dog on the box of Cracker Jacks.
Chihuahuas are born with soft spots in their skulls just like human babies.
Chow Chows are born with pink tongues which turn blue-black at 8 to 10 weeks.
Dachshunds were originally bred to fight badgers.
Dogs are direct descendants of wolves.
Dogs are mentioned in the Bible more than 35 times.
Dogs are naturally submissive to any creature with a higher pack status.
Dogs are omnivores -- they eat meat grains and vegetables.
Dogs are pack animals -- they don't enjoy being alone.
Dogs aren't colorblind but their eyes don't have receptors for red. They see in shades of black and white and also in shades of blue and yellow.
Dogs can be taught to count and solve simple math problems.
Dogs can be trained to detect cancer and other diseases in humans.
Dogs can get jealous when their humans display affection toward someone or something else.
Dogs can learn more than 1000 words.
Dogs can see best at dawn and dusk.
Dogs curl up to keep themselves warm and protect vital organs.
Dogs have three eyelids including one to keep their eyes moist and protected.
Dogs have twice as many muscles to move their ears as humans.
Dogs sometimes appear to smile -- much like humans -- with open mouth grinning. This may indicate a relaxed submissive state.
Dogs sweat through the pads of their feet.
Dogs who bark the most: Miniature Schnauzers Cairn Terriers Yorkshire Terriers Fox Terriers and West Highland White Terriers.
Dogs who have been spayed or neutered live longer than intact dogs.
Female dogs carry puppies for about nine weeks before birth.
Highly trainable dog breeds like Golden Retrievers Labrador Retrievers German Shepherds and Collies are more kid-friendly than some other breeds.
In 1969 Lassie was the first animal inducted into the Animal Hall of Fame.
In ancient China people kept warm by putting dogs up their sleeves.
In general smaller breeds live longer than larger breeds.
Irish Wolfhounds the tallest breed are 30 to 35 inches tall.
Just like human fingerprints no two dogs' nose prints are alike.
Many foot disorders in dogs are caused by long toenails.
Mastiffs wore armor and were sent after mounted knights in Roman times.
Max Jake Maggie and Molly are the most popular dog names.
More than half of all U.S. presidents have owned dogs.
More than one in three U.S. families owns a dog.
National Geographic's Dr. Brady Barr measured a dog's average bite force at 320 pounds of pressure per square inch.
New puppies have heat sensors in their noses to help find their moms while their eyes and ears are closed.
Obesity is the top health problem among dogs.
One unspayed female dog her mate and their puppies can produce 67000 puppies in six years.
Over half of dog owners include their dogs in annual holiday photos.
Paul McCartney of the Beatles recorded a high pitched whistle at the end of “A Day in the Life” for his dog.
Perky-eared dogs hear sounds better than floppy-eared dogs.
Petting a dog can lower your blood pressure.
Pit bulls have been given a bad rap. BADRAP was started in the San Francisco Bay area on behalf of “pit bulls and their people” and was ranked nationally as a No. 1 high-impact nonprofit for animal welfare.
President Calvin Coolidge owned at least a dozen dogs.
President Lyndon Johnson's beagles were named Him and Her.
President Theodore Roosevelt's Bull Terrier Pete ripped the pants off French Ambassador Jules Jusserand.
Puppies are blind deaf and toothless when born.
Puppies can sleep 18 to 20 hours a day during that rapid body growth phase.
Puppies grow to half their body weight in the first four to five months!
Puppies have 28 teeth and adult dogs have 42.
Puppies love games such as hide and seek! Hide then call your pup's name so she can try to find you.
Puppies then take a year or more to gain the other half of their body weight.
Revolutionary War soldiers sometimes brought their dogs with them into battle. Such was the case with George Washington and his dog Sweetlips.
Rin Tin Tin was the first Hollywood dog star.
Service dogs are recognized in the U.S. as “necessary medical equipment.”
Smaller breeds of dogs mature faster than larger breeds.
Spiked dog collars were used to protect dogs' throats from wolf attacks in ancient Greece.
Stray dogs in Moscow have learned to ride the subway to find food.
Stroking dogs and gazing into their eyes releases the “feel good” hormone oxytocin for both people and dogs.
Teams of dogs compete for the fastest time without errors in Flyball races.
The Alaskan Malamute can withstand temperatures as low as 70 degrees below zero.
The American Water Spaniel was the first hunting breed developed to retrieve from boats.]
The Basenji is the only barkless dog.
The Berger Picard Miniature American Shepherd and Lagotto Romagnolo are the newest dog breeds recognized by the American Kennel Club in 2015.
The Border Collie Poodle and Golden Retriever are considered the world's smartest dog breeds.
The Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts both offer merit badges in dog care.
The Chihuahua was named for the state in northwestern Mexico where they were discovered.
The Labrador Retriever is the most popular breed according to the American Kennel Club.
The Newfoundland has a water-resistant coat and webbed feet.
The Norwegian Lundehund is the only dog with six toes on each foot.
The U.S. has the highest dog population in the world.
The average dog lives 10 to 14 years.
The average number of puppies in a litter is four to six.
The best age to bring a puppy home is 8 to 12 weeks.
The fastest breed the Greyhound can run up to 44 miles per hour.
The heaviest breed the Mastiff weighs about 200 pounds.
The world's oldest breed the Saluki originated in Egypt around 329 B.C.
Therapy dogs who bring healing to individuals and families by visiting hospitals schools or retirement homes differ from service dogs who assist individuals who have disabilities.
There are about 400 million dogs in the world.
There are hundreds of breeds of dogs.
There are nearly 14000 animal shelters and rescue groups across North America.
Thomas Jefferson helped enact a dog tax in Virginia because he was annoyed that dogs were killing his sheep.
Three of the 12 dogs on the Titanic survived.
Tired puppies get cranky just like little kids. If you have a fussy puppy try nap time.
Upright stiff rapid tail movement is not wagging or “friendly” but indicates a dog who's rather excited and focused.
Walt Disney's family dog -- named Sunnee -- was the inspiration behind “Lady and the Tramp.”
With love and a little patience dogs can learn to walk backwards salute and bow.
Your pup reaches his full size between 12 and 24 months.